# Multifaceted Optimization Algorithm

Many atmospheric models are unable to produce the significant increase and subsequent recovery in the neutral density observed during geomagnetic storms. Inaccuracy of the density during these periods translates to errors in orbit propagation that reduce the accuracy of any resulting orbit predictions. With more spacecraft than ever in orbit, there is a significant amount of ephemeris in the form of two-line element sets (TLEs). We present an improved Multifaceted Optimization Algorithm (MOA), a simple method that corrects empirical model densities by minimizing the error between a modeled trajectory and a set of TLEs. MOA is an enhanced, restructured upgrade from the previous method. MOA utilizes ephemeris from more objects and is based on NASA's GMAT orbit propagator. The algorithm first estimates a representative ballistic coefficient for spacecraft during the quiet time prior to each storm and then estimates modifications to the inputs of the NRLMSISE-00 empirical density model to minimize the difference between the modeled and TLE-derived rate of change in the semimajor axis for each spacecraft. MOA associates the corresponding adjustments to F10.7 and 3-hr $\text{a}_p$ found for each satellite with the TLE epoch directly instead of using linear interpolation. The median value of these modifications across all spacecraft for each storm are subsequently applied to NRLMSISE-00. For validation, MOA results were systematically compared to Swarm-derived mass densities across multiple large and small scale geomagnetic storms that occurred from 2023 to 2024. The driver modifications show very strong improvement in the orbit-averaged neutral densities for each geomagnetic storm compared to the unchanged NRLMSISE-00 inputs.
